# Database

In this documentation outline the database management strategy for the backend of this repository.

This includes how we handle database migrations, seeding, and schema management.

For this repository, we used TypeORM as the Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool to interact with the database.

For database solution, we chose MySQL. But this can be easily replaced with any other database supported by TypeORM, such as PostgreSQL or SQLite, by changing the configuration in `datasource.ts` and installing the corresponding database driver.

## Data Mapper

We utilize the Data Mapper pattern rather than Active Record. This decoupling ensures that our business logic remains independent of the database schema, making services easier to test and maintain.

### Entities

- **Naming**: All entities must use the `.entity.ts` suffix.
- **Inheritance**: Entities must extend our internal `BaseEntity` to ensure consistent auditing fields (e.g., `createdAt`, `updatedAt`, `deletedAt`).

## Configuration

All of the Database related configuration is located in the `src/database` directory of the backend package. This includes:

```text
.
├── datasource.ts
├── migrations/    # Version-controlled SQL/TS migration scripts, Auto-generated by TypeORM CLI
├── seed-runner.ts # Script to execute seed files
└── seeds/          # Data seeding logic for initial DB population
    ├── 01-todo.seed.ts
    └── data/      # Raw data for seeds (e.g., JSON, CSV)
```

And also the `database.builder.ts` file in the `src/config` directory, which is responsible for building the database configuration from environment variables.

## Migrations Strategy

In this repository, we follow a Migrations-First strategy. This means that any changes to the database schema must be made through TypeORM migrations rather than direct modifications to the entity classes.

**Note:** Therefore, it is important to never set `synchronize: true` in the TypeORM configuration (outside of local development).

### Workflow

1. Generating

After modifying an entity, generate a new migration file using the TypeORM CLI:

```bash
yarn migration:generate src/database/migrations/YourMigrationName
```

**Note:** The migration name should be descriptive, and the path should point to the migrations directory.

2. Run the Migration

To sync your local or remote database with the latest schema, run:

```bash
yarn migration:run
```

3. Revert a Migration

If you need to undo the last migration, you can run:

```bash
yarn migration:revert
```

4. Seed the data

For seeding the data for the database, you should run it with the following command:

```bash
yarn seed:run
```

When this command is executed, it will run the `seed-runner.ts` script, which is responsible for executing all of the seed files located in the `src/database/seeds` directory.

Each seed file should export a function that contains the logic to populate the database with initial data.

It is also recommended that you should have integration test to verify the correctness of the seed files, as they are an important part of the development and testing process. You can refer to the `todo` module for an example of how to write integration tests that connect to a real database and verify the seeded data.

### Best Practices for Migration

- Always review the generated migration files to ensure they accurately reflect the intended schema changes.
- Avoid making manual edits to migration files unless necessary, as this can lead to inconsistencies.
- Use descriptive names for migration files to clearly indicate the purpose of the migration.
- Regularly run migrations in a staging environment before applying them to production to catch any potential issues early.
